Okay, so before we jump into
the final section for today.
I wanted to pause a moment and address
a question that came in via the chat,
which is what do I think
about web checklists?
And the user in question shared a
particular checklists he'd come across and
asked me why I thought of it I
mean the truth is I haven't seen
this particular one.
I mean there are a lot of
these checklists around and
I've got no problem with them I think for
a lot of people it's very helpful to have,
a checklist they can work through.
And be really confident they've
ticked all the boxes and
covered everything that needs to be done.
I think my only problem with
checklists is that they can become
out of date quite quickly because
the web moves at quite a pace.
And you can end up continuing to kind
of mindlessly follow a particular
routine that isn't necessarily
correct any more up to date.
And the other aspect to them and this one
happens to be a good example of that is
that they can be quite intimidating.
There are 240 rules that must be
followed and I think depending
on who's having to use this checklist
that can be quite inaccessible to them.
Often, for example, I see developers or
designers ditch it to people generally
graying this checklist especially for non
digital people and, I have to create them.
I create playbooks all the time
which contain this kind of thing in.
And they can be quite intimidating for
people that don't
work regularly in digital and so that
just don't bother and they abandon them.
So making them accessible, easy to
understand, applying all the same rules,
really, that we've talked about
today in terms of usability.
Find the bility scannability all of that
kind of stuff is just as important with
something like this where
there's 240 rules involved.
But in principle I think they're great so
couple of people submitted sites for
us to learn look at we've got
the Texas State University website,
and I can't even focus on that.
That text the Christian
something Christian University.
Wow, my eyesight is going.
So let's have a quick look at these.
Interestingly, I always seem
to attract a lot of higher
education websites in these sessions and
look at a lot of them.
Which is very fortunate because higher
education sites I've worked on over
30 higher education sites over the years.
And I've kind of learned
the nuances of the challenges
that they face and
they are many and extensive.
And one of the big challenges
that universities face
is the fact that they are trying to
appeal to many different audiences.
From a 18 year old undergraduate,
a prospective undergraduate all
the way through to business partners.
In the commercial sector to
postgraduate students, researchers,
academics, all these different people.
And as a result,
their websites are often this kinda,
they almost give up on the idea of
providing any kind of journey or
any kind of experiences stayed become
these massive repositories of information.
And from the looks of of this it's it's
beginning to tackle some of these issues.
So is obviously saying front and
center that you're Europe
that your plan is that is for
students and it's putting
the emphasis on things like applying.
And majors and
degrees is not getting too distracted by
secondary audiences which is a good thing.
However, often it's a matter
of actually breaking these
audiences down into almost
different sub sites.
So that you can cater more
specifically for them so
have sites that are aimed just
at the business community or
just at academics in pairs and
research and those kinds of things.
Quite nice simple navigation,
not too many navigational items going on.
One thing is we've got this navigation
bar that's a fixed navigation bar.
I've got very mixed feelings about these
things in some ways it's quite nice to
have the navigational wisdom available.
But you can quite easily start using
up quite considerable real estate.
It's not too bad on desktops but
on mobile fixed navigation
becomes really problematic.
So again we don't have a strong
value proposition here it's
the emphasis is very much that everybody's
back on campus now off the COVID.
But why Texas state of all the
universities I could go to I'm not really
fight him to hearing why I should
pick this place over so many others.
And as I scroll down I'm still
not really seeing that classic
examples that I see all the time
in higher education institutions.
We were founded in 1899 and
we've been around a long time.
I don't care, right?
And the average student doesn't
care that's in the past.
What about now?
What are you gonna provide me?
What of my chances of getting
a job at the end of it.
Do you have the course that I
want those kinds of things.
And because there's this attitude within
universities of what we've got so
much information to share which gonna
put it all online in a logical way.
That actually you just end up with these
verbose sites with far too much content
about all the wrong things, instead you
need to start with the user questions.
What do users wanna know?
What do they care about and
structure around that in the hierarchical
way that we've been talking about so far.
Another typical mistake that
I see universities make and
I'm seeing this on both websites.
I'm seeing it here, and I was seeing
it over on this bit here is that
they're talking about themselves and
how great they are, right?
And I see this on a lot of sites.
They're talking about how great they
are and no what they can do for the user.
Now I'm, in some ways this is great
because it's providing a little bit of
social proof and credibility.
but to lead with that, so
strongly is basically the homepage
is saying, we're great.
Well done, but what can you give me?
How can you help me?
How does that translate into my life and
what I have.
Then we've got a video playing,
which maybe creates a bit of
a feel of the facilities that
you've got and that kind of thing.
But there's I'm not hearing anything.
I'm not learning anything.
I'm just seeing some pretty pictures And
then yeah.
Then another problem you
often see on sites is that
they're broken down into the hierarchical
structure of the organization rather
than in the way that the use of things.
So, this is all now broken
down into colleges, right?
Well, you don't come as a prospective
undergraduate don't come to a website and
going I want to know more about
the College of Biblical studies.
You go I want to study theology or I want
to study evangelism or whatever it be.
As a subject matter, so you don't
think in terms of colleges, colleges
are meaningful for existing students and
they're meaningful for academics.
But they're not meaningful for
prospective students.
Now the inevitable response to that
is our yes but existing students and
academics are important to us.
Sure, then deal with them separately,
all right?
Don't try and do everything
on the front end site and it.
And you can see this here
that you often have links to
internal systems that
users can click on and
then they can't log into it cuz
they're not an existing student.
Separate out existing students and
existing staff and
academics from your marketing site.
The two are very different roads.
You shouldn't try and
combine them all together.
And that's where a good
intranet should come in.
Another problem that I see on
a lot of university sites and
I suspect these are both examples of that,
right?
Is news stories, right?
I would encourage you to
look at your analytics and
look at the number of people that
are actually reading the news stories.
The chances are nobody cares,
nobody reads those news stories.
And again I see this not
just on university sites but
across the board, right?
You don't wake up one morning and
go I want to read the sexist.
To Texas State News University, right?
We don't read websites like that.
Heck, I run a blog, and
people don't just turn up to my
site to read the latest news.
They arrive after maybe searching
on a particular problem or
challenge they face and
come to a blog post the answers that.
But that the news itself
provides very little value
in encouraging people to
subscribe to the university.
Yes, but they might want to know that Dr.
Ann works at our institution, will they?
And even if they knew who that person was,
is that gonna swing their decision
making or
is it just more noise that is distracting.
So with university sites is almost always
the good starting point is to go through
each of these elements just like
I said and simplify them and go.
If we remove that, would it reduce
the number of people signing up, right?
It may be a little bit different in
the States because I know that you're mad
about your football in college
football it's a huge thing.
But really great you've got
a successful football team but
I'm talking about studying
humanities you've got to
again even more with this
kind of featured news.
Former FBI agent heads new online criminal
justice program that's great if I'm
studying criminal justice but
this is on your homepage, right?
And I could be studying anything else.
So why don't you put this information on
the criminal justice page because then
it's relevant.
So thinking about your visual hierarchy,
simplifying, and
removing unnecessary information,
focusing on people's questions.
Presenting the right information at the
right time is also much more critical and
just to be frank whatever university does.
And I'm not just picking on these people
vomiting everything onto the homepage
because every person wants their
bit of real estate on the homepage.
And everybody's arguing about this
is the good, great example of
how you should be running something
like a user attention point exercise.
To focus all of those people
with all of their egos and
all those academics that want
their slice of the homepage and
forcing them to prioritize what's
important within the institution.